---
title: Layout
platform: universal
category: layout
url: https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/layout
quality_score: 0.49
content_length: 24197
last_updated: 2025-07-19T23:44:52.762Z
keywords: ["layout","universal","controls","design","materials","navigation","visual","buttons","system","interface","color","accessibility","typography","status","presentation","motion"]
has_code_examples: false
has_images: false
is_fallback: false
---

June 9, 2025 Added guidance for Liquid Glass. LayoutA consistent layout that adapts to various contexts makes your experience more approachable and helps people enjoy their favorite apps and games on all their devices.Your app’s layout helps ground people in your content from the moment they open it. People expect familiar relationships between controls and content to help them use and discover your app’s features, and designing the layout to take advantage of this makes your app feel at home on the platform.Apple provides templates, guides, and other resources that can help you integrate Apple technologies and design your apps and games to run on all Apple platforms. See Apple Design Resources.Best practicesGroup related items to help people find the information they want. For example, you might use negative space, background shapes, colors, materials, or separator lines to show when elements are related and to separate information into distinct areas. When you do so, ensure that content and controls remain clearly distinct.Make essential information easy to find by giving it sufficient space. People want to view the most important information right away, so don’t obscure it by crowding it with nonessential details. You can make secondary information available in other parts of the window, or include it in an additional view.Extend content to fill the screen or window. Make sure backgrounds and full-screen artwork extend to the edges of the display. Also ensure that scrollable layouts continue all the way to the bottom and the sides of the device screen. Controls and navigation components like sidebars and tab bars appear on top of content rather than on the same plane, so it’s important for your layout to take this into account.When your content doesn’t span the full window, use a background extension view to provide the appearance of content behind the control layer on either side of the screen, such as beneath the sidebar or inspector. For developer guidance, see backgroundExtensionEffect() and UIBackgroundExtensionView.Visual hierarchyDifferentiate controls from content. Take advantage of the Liquid Glass material to provide a distinct appearance for controls that’s consistent across iOS, iPadOS, and macOS. Instead of a background, use a scroll edge effect to provide a transition between content and the control area.Use a soft edge effect in most cases, especially in iOS and iPadOS, to provide a subtle transition that works well for toolbars and interactive elements like buttons.Use a hard edge effect primarily in macOS for a stronger, more opaque boundary that’s ideal for interactive text, backless controls, or pinned table headers that need extra clarity.For guidance, see Materials. For developer guidance, see ScrollEdgeEffectStyle.Place items to convey their relative importance. People often start by viewing items in reading order — that is, from top to bottom and from the leading to trailing side — so it generally works well to place the most important items near the top and leading side of the window, display, or field of view. Be aware that reading order varies by language, and take right to left languages into account as you design.Align components with one another to make them easier to scan and to communicate organization and hierarchy. Alignment makes an app look neat and organized and can help people track content while scrolling or moving their eyes, making it easier to find information. Along with indentation, alignment can also help people understand an information hierarchy.Take advantage of progressive disclosure to help people discover content that’s currently hidden. For example, if you can’t display all the items in a large collection at once, you need to indicate that there are additional items that aren’t currently visible. Depending on the platform, you might use a disclosure control, or display parts of items to hint that people can reveal additional content by interacting with the view, such as by scrolling.Make controls easier to use by providing enough space around them and grouping them in logical sections. If unrelated controls are too close together — or if other content crowds them — they can be difficult for people to tell apart or understand what they do, which can make your app or game hard to use. For guidance, see Toolbars.AdaptabilityEvery app and game needs to adapt when the device or system context changes. In iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, and visionOS, the system defines a collection of traits that characterize variations in the device environment that can affect the way your app or game looks. Using SwiftUI or Auto Layout can help you ensure that your interface adapts dynamically to these traits and other context changes; if you don’t use these tools, you need to use alternative methods to do the work.Here are some of the most common device and system variations you need to handle:Different device screen sizes, resolutions, and color spacesDifferent device orientations (portrait/landscape)System features like Dynamic Island and camera controlsExternal display support, Display Zoom, and resizable windows on iPadDynamic Type text-size changesLocale-based internationalization features like left-to-right/right-to-left layout direction, date/time/number formatting, font variation, and text lengthDesign a layout that adapts gracefully to context changes while remaining recognizably consistent. People expect your experience to work well and remain familiar when they rotate their device, resize a window, add another display, or switch to a different device. You can help ensure an adaptable interface by respecting system-defined safe areas, margins, and guides (where available) and specifying layout modifiers to fine-tune the placement of views in your interface.Be prepared for text-size changes. People appreciate apps and games that respond when they choose a different text size. When you support Dynamic Type — a feature that lets people choose the size of visible text in iOS, iPadOS, tvOS, visionOS, and watchOS — your app or game can respond appropriately when people adjust text size. To support Dynamic Type in your Unity-based game, use Apple’s accessibility plug-in (for developer guidance, see Apple – Accessibility). For guidance on displaying text in your app, see Typography.Preview your app on multiple devices, using different orientations, localizations, and text sizes. You can streamline the testing process by first testing versions of your experience that use the largest and the smallest layouts. Although it’s generally best to preview features like wide-gamut color on actual devices, you can use Xcode Simulator to check for clipping and other layout issues. For example, if your iOS app or game supports landscape mode, you can use Simulator to make sure your layouts look great whether the device rotates left or right.When necessary, scale artwork in response to display changes. For example, viewing your app or game in a different context — such as on a screen with a different aspect ratio — might make your artwork appear cropped, letterboxed, or pillarboxed. If this happens, don’t change the aspect ratio of the artwork; instead, scale it so that important visual content remains visible. In visionOS, the system automatically scales a window when it moves along the z-axis.Guides and safe areasA layout guide defines a rectangular region that helps you position, align, and space your content on the screen. The system includes predefined layout guides that make it easy to apply standard margins around content and restrict the width of text for optimal readability. You can also define custom layout guides. For developer guidance, see UILayoutGuide and NSLayoutGuide.A safe area defines the area within a view that isn’t covered by a toolbar, tab bar, or other views a window might provide. Safe areas are essential for avoiding a device’s interactive and display features, like Dynamic Island on iPhone or the camera housing on some Mac models. For developer guidance, see SafeAreaRegions and Positioning content relative to the safe area.Respect key display and system features in each platform. When an app or game doesn’t accommodate such features, it doesn’t feel at home in the platform and may be harder for people to use. In addition to helping you avoid display and system features, safe areas can also help you account for interactive components like bars, dynamically repositioning content when sizes change.For templates that include the guides and safe areas for each platform, see Apple Design Resources.Platform considerationsiOSAim to support both portrait and landscape orientations. People appreciate apps and games that work well in different device orientations, but sometimes your experience needs to run in only portrait or only landscape. When this is the case, you can rely on people trying both orientations before settling on the one you support — there’s no need to tell people to rotate their device. If your app or game is landscape-only, make sure it runs equally well whether people rotate their device to the left or the right.Prefer a full-bleed interface for your game. Give players a beautiful interface that fills the screen while accommodating the corner radius, sensor housing, and features like Dynamic Island. If necessary, consider giving players the option to view your game using a letterboxed or pillarboxed appearance.Avoid full-width buttons. Buttons feel at home in iOS when they respect system-defined margins and are inset from the edges of the screen. If you need to include a full-width button, make sure it harmonizes with the curvature of the hardware and aligns with adjacent safe areas.Hide the status bar only when it adds value or enhances your experience. The status bar displays information people find useful and it occupies an area of the screen most apps don’t fully use, so it’s generally a good idea to keep it visible. The exception is if you offer an in-depth experience like playing a game or viewing media, where it might make sense to hide the status bar.iPadOSPeople can freely resize windows down to a minimum width and height, similar to window behavior in macOS. It’s important to account for this resizing behavior and the full range of possible window sizes when designing your layout. For guidance, see Multitasking and Windows.As someone resizes a window, defer switching to a compact view for as long as possible. Design for a full-screen view first, and only switch to a compact view when a version of the full layout no longer fits. This helps the UI feel more stable and familiar in as many situations as possible. For more complex layouts such as split views, prefer hiding tertiary columns such as inspectors as the view narrows.Test your layout at common system-provided sizes, and provide smooth transitions. Window controls provide the option to arrange windows to fill halves, thirds, and quadrants of the screen, so it’s important to check your layout at each of these sizes on a variety of devices. Be sure to minimize unexpected UI changes as people adjust down to the minimum and up to the maximum window size.Consider a convertible tab bar for adaptive navigation. For many apps, you don’t need to choose between a tab bar or sidebar for navigation; instead, you can adopt a style of tab bar that provides both. The app first launches with your choice of a sidebar or a tab bar, and then people can tap to switch between them. As the view resizes, the presentation style changes to fit the width of the view. For guidance, see Tab bars. For developer guidance, see sidebarAdaptable.macOSAvoid placing controls or critical information at the bottom of a window. People often move windows so that the bottom edge is below the bottom of the screen.Avoid displaying content within the camera housing at the top edge of the window. For developer guidance, see NSPrefersDisplaySafeAreaCompatibilityMode.tvOSBe prepared for a wide range of TV sizes. On Apple TV, layouts don’t automatically adapt to the size of the screen like they do on iPhone or iPad. Instead, apps and games show the same interface on every display. Take extra care in designing your layout so that it looks great in a variety of screen sizes.Adhere to the screen’s safe area. Inset primary content 60 points from the top and bottom of the screen, and 80 points from the sides. It can be difficult for people to see content that close to the edges, and unintended cropping can occur due to overscanning on older TVs. Allow only partially displayed offscreen content and elements that deliberately flow offscreen to appear outside this zone.Include appropriate padding between focusable elements. When you use UIKit and the focus APIs, an element gets bigger when it comes into focus. Consider how elements look when they’re focused, and make sure you don’t let them overlap important information. For developer guidance, see About focus interactions for Apple TV.GridsThe following grid layouts provide an optimal viewing experience. Be sure to use appropriate spacing between unfocused rows and columns to prevent overlap when an item comes into focus.If you use the UIKit collection view flow element, the number of columns in a grid is automatically determined based on the width and spacing of your content. For developer guidance, see UICollectionViewFlowLayout.Two-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width860 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptThree-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width560 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptFour-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width410 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptFive-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width320 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptSix-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width260 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptSeven-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width217 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptEight-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width184 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptNine-column gridAttributeValueUnfocused content width160 ptHorizontal spacing40 ptMinimum vertical spacing100 ptInclude additional vertical spacing for titled rows. If a row has a title, provide enough spacing between the bottom of the previous unfocused row and the center of the title to avoid crowding. Also provide spacing between the bottom of the title and the top of the unfocused items in the row.Use consistent spacing. When content isn’t consistently spaced, it no longer looks like a grid and it’s harder for people to scan.Make partially hidden content look symmetrical. To help direct attention to the fully visible content, keep partially hidden offscreen content the same width on each side of the screen.visionOSThe guidance below can help you lay out content within the windows of your visionOS app or game, making it feel familiar and easy to use. For guidance on displaying windows in space and best practices for using depth, scale, and field of view in your visionOS app, see Spatial layout. To learn more about visionOS window components, see Windows > visionOS.NoteWhen you add depth to content in a standard window, the content extends beyond the window’s bounds along the z-axis. If content extends too far along the z-axis, the system clips it.Consider centering the most important content and controls in your app or game. Often, people can more easily discover and interact with content when it’s near the middle of a window, especially when the window is large.Keep a window’s content within its bounds. In visionOS, the system displays window controls just outside a window’s bounds in the XY plane. For example, the Share menu appears above the window and the controls for resizing, moving, and closing the window appear below it. Letting 2D or 3D content encroach on these areas can make the system-provided controls, especially those below the window, difficult for people to use.If you need to display additional controls that don’t belong within a window, use an ornament. An ornament lets you offer app controls that remain visually associated with a window without interfering with the system-provided controls. For example, a window’s toolbar and tab bar appear as ornaments. For guidance, see Ornaments.Make a window’s interactive components easy for people to look at. You need to include enough space around an interactive component so that visually identifying it is easy and comfortable, and to prevent the system-provided hover effect from obscuring other content. For example, place buttons so their centers are at least 60 points apart. For guidance, see Eyes, Spatial layout, and Buttons > visionOS.watchOSDesign your content to extend from one edge of the screen to the other. The Apple Watch bezel provides a natural visual padding around your content. To avoid wasting valuable space, consider minimizing the padding between elements.Avoid placing more than two or three controls side by side in your interface. As a general rule, display no more than three buttons that contain glyphs — or two buttons that contain text — in a row. Although it’s usually better to let text buttons span the full width of the screen, two side-by-side buttons with short text labels can also work well, as long as the screen doesn’t scroll.Support autorotation in views people might want to show others. When people flip their wrist away, apps typically respond to the motion by sleeping the display, but in some cases it makes sense to autorotate the content. For example, a wearer might want to show an image to a friend or display a QR code to a reader. For developer guidance, see isAutorotating.SpecificationsiOS, iPadOS device screen dimensionsModelDimensions (portrait)iPad Pro 12.9-inch1024x1366 pt (2048x2732 px @2x)iPad Pro 11-inch834x1194 pt (1668x2388 px @2x)iPad Pro 10.5-inch834x1194 pt (1668x2388 px @2x)iPad Pro 9.7-inch768x1024 pt (1536x2048 px @2x)iPad Air 13-inch1024x1366 pt (2048x2732 px @2x)iPad Air 11-inch820x1180 pt (1640x2360 px @2x)iPad Air 10.9-inch820x1180 pt (1640x2360 px @2x)iPad Air 10.5-inch834x1112 pt (1668x2224 px @2x)iPad Air 9.7-inch768x1024 pt (1536x2048 px @2x)iPad 11-inch820x1180 pt (1640x2360 px @2x)iPad 10.2-inch810x1080 pt (1620x2160 px @2x)iPad 9.7-inch768x1024 pt (1536x2048 px @2x)iPad mini 8.3-inch744x1133 pt (1488x2266 px @2x)iPad mini 7.9-inch768x1024 pt (1536x2048 px @2x)iPhone 16 Pro Max440x956 pt (1320x2868 px @3x)iPhone 16 Pro402x874 pt (1206x2622 px @3x)iPhone 16 Plus430x932 pt (1290x2796 px @3x)iPhone 16393x852 pt (1179x2556 px @3x)iPhone 16e390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 15 Pro Max430x932 pt (1290x2796 px @3x)iPhone 15 Pro393x852 pt (1179x2556 px @3x)iPhone 15 Plus430x932 pt (1290x2796 px @3x)iPhone 15393x852 pt (1179x2556 px @3x)iPhone 14 Pro Max430x932 pt (1290x2796 px @3x)iPhone 14 Pro393x852 pt (1179x2556 px @3x)iPhone 14 Plus428x926 pt (1284x2778 px @3x)iPhone 14390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 13 Pro Max428x926 pt (1284x2778 px @3x)iPhone 13 Pro390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 13390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 13 mini375x812 pt (1125x2436 px @3x)iPhone 12 Pro Max428x926 pt (1284x2778 px @3x)iPhone 12 Pro390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 12390x844 pt (1170x2532 px @3x)iPhone 12 mini375x812 pt (1125x2436 px @3x)iPhone 11 Pro Max414x896 pt (1242x2688 px @3x)iPhone 11 Pro375x812 pt (1125x2436 px @3x)iPhone 11414x896 pt (828x1792 px @2x)iPhone XS Max414x896 pt (1242x2688 px @3x)iPhone XS375x812 pt (1125x2436 px @3x)iPhone XR414x896 pt (828x1792 px @2x)iPhone X375x812 pt (1125x2436 px @3x)iPhone 8 Plus414x736 pt (1080x1920 px @3x)iPhone 8375x667 pt (750x1334 px @2x)iPhone 7 Plus414x736 pt (1080x1920 px @3x)iPhone 7375x667 pt (750x1334 px @2x)iPhone 6s Plus414x736 pt (1080x1920 px @3x)iPhone 6s375x667 pt (750x1334 px @2x)iPhone 6 Plus414x736 pt (1080x1920 px @3x)iPhone 6375x667 pt (750x1334 px @2x)iPhone SE 4.7-inch375x667 pt (750x1334 px @2x)iPhone SE 4-inch320x568 pt (640x1136 px @2x)iPod touch 5th generation and later320x568 pt (640x1136 px @2x)NoteAll scale factors in the table above are UIKit scale factors, which may differ from native scale factors. For developer guidance, see scale and nativeScale.iOS, iPadOS device size classesA size class is a value that’s either regular or compact, where regular refers to a larger screen or a screen in landscape orientation and compact refers to a smaller screen or a screen in portrait orientation. For developer guidance, see UserInterfaceSizeClass.Different size class combinations apply to the full-screen experience on different devices, based on screen size.ModelPortrait orientationLandscape orientationiPad Pro 12.9-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad Pro 11-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad Pro 10.5-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad Air 13-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad Air 11-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad 11-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad 9.7-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPad mini 7.9-inchRegular width, regular heightRegular width, regular heightiPhone 16 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 16 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 16 PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 16Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 16eCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 15 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 15 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 15 PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 15Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 14 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 14 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 14 PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 14Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 13 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 13 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 13Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 13 miniCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 12 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 12 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 12Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 12 miniCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 11 Pro MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 11 ProCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 11Compact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone XS MaxCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone XSCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone XRCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone XCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 8 PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 8Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 7 PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 7Compact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone 6s PlusCompact width, regular heightRegular width, compact heightiPhone 6sCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPhone SECompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightiPod touch 5th generation and laterCompact width, regular heightCompact width, compact heightwatchOS device screen dimensionsSeriesSizeWidth (pixels)Height (pixels)1042mm3744461046mm416496Apple Watch Ultra (all generations)49mm4105027, 8, and 941mm3524307, 8, and 945mm3964844, 5, 6, and SE40mm3243944, 5, 6, and SE44mm3684481, 2, and 338mm2723401, 2, and 342mm312390