---
title: Typography
platform: universal
category: layout
url: https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography
quality_score: 0.49
content_length: 28437
last_updated: 2025-07-20T03:43:04.379Z
keywords: ["typography","universal","layout","system","color","visual","interface","design","accessibility","input","icons","controls","materials"]
has_code_examples: false
has_images: false
is_fallback: false
---

Typography Your typographic choices can help you display legible text, convey an information hierarchy, communicate important content, and express your brand or style. Ensuring legibility Use font sizes that most people can read easily. People need to be able to read your content at various viewing distances and under a variety of conditions. Follow the recommended default and minimum text sizes for each platform — for both custom and system fonts — to ensure your text is legible on all devices. Keep in mind that font weight can also impact how easy text is to read. If you use a custom font with a thin weight, aim for larger than the recommended sizes to increase legibility. Platform Default size Minimum sizei OS, i Pad OS 17 pt 11 ptmac OS 13 pt 10 pttv OS 29 pt 23 ptvision OS 17 pt 12 ptwatch OS 16 pt 12 pt Test legibility in different contexts. For example, you need to test game text for legibility on each platform on which your game runs. If testing shows that some of your text is difficult to read, consider using a larger type size, increasing contrast by modifying the text or background colors, or using typefaces designed for optimized legibility, like the system fonts. Testing a game on a new platform can show where text is hard to read. Increasing text size and adding visible background shapes can help make text easier to read. In general, avoid light font weights. For example, if you’re using system-provided fonts, prefer Regular, Medium, Semibold, or Bold font weights, and avoid Ultralight, Thin, and Light font weights, which can be difficult to see, especially when text is small. Conveying hierarchy Adjust font weight, size, and color as needed to emphasize important information and help people visualize hierarchy. Be sure to maintain the relative hierarchy and visual distinction of text elements when people adjust text sizes. Minimize the number of typefaces you use, even in a highly customized interface. Mixing too many different typefaces can obscure your information hierarchy and hinder readability, in addition to making an interface feel internally inconsistent or poorly designed. Prioritize important content when responding to text-size changes. Not all content is equally important. When someone chooses a larger text size, they typically want to make the content they care about easier to read; they don’t always want to increase the size of every word on the screen. For example, when people increase text size to read the content in a tabbed window, they don’t expect the tab titles to increase in size. Similarly, in a game, people are often more interested in a character’s dialog than in transient hit-damage values. Using system fonts Apple provides two typeface families that support an extensive range of weights, sizes, styles, and languages. San Francisco (SF) is a sans serif typeface family that includes the SF Pro, SF Compact, SF Arabic, SF Armenian, SF Georgian, SF Hebrew, and SF Mono variants. The system also offers SF Pro, SF Compact, SF Arabic, SF Armenian, SF Georgian, and SF Hebrew in rounded variants you can use to coordinate text with the appearance of soft or rounded UI elements, or to provide an alternative typographic voice. New York (NY) is a serif typeface family designed to work well by itself and alongside the SF fonts. You can download the San Francisco and New York fonts here. The system provides the SF and NY fonts in the variable font format, which combines different font styles together in one file, and supports interpolation between styles to create intermediate ones. Note Variable fonts support optical sizing, which refers to the adjustment of different typographic designs to fit different sizes. On all platforms, the system fonts support dynamic optical sizes, which merge discrete optical sizes (like Text and Display) and weights into a single, continuous design, letting the system interpolate each glyph or letterform to produce a structure that’s precisely adapted to the point size. With dynamic optical sizes, you don’t need to use discrete optical sizes unless you’re working with a design tool that doesn’t support all the features of the variable font format. To help you define visual hierarchies and create clear and legible designs in many different sizes and contexts, the system fonts are available in a variety of weights, ranging from Ultralight to Black, and — in the case of SF — several widths, including Condensed and Expanded. Because SF Symbols use equivalent weights, you can achieve precise weight matching between symbols and adjacent text, regardless of the size or style you choose. Note SF Symbols provides a comprehensive library of symbols that integrate seamlessly with the San Francisco system font, automatically aligning with text in all weights and sizes. Consider using symbols when you need to convey a concept or depict an object, especially within text. The system defines a set of typographic attributes — called text styles — that work with both typeface families. A text style specifies a combination of font weight, point size, and leading values for each text size. For example, the body text style uses values that support a comfortable reading experience over multiple lines of text, while the headline style assigns a font size and weight that help distinguish a heading from surrounding content. Taken together, the text styles form a typographic hierarchy you can use to express the different levels of importance in your content. Text styles also allow text to scale proportionately when people change the system’s text size or make accessibility adjustments, like turning on Larger Text in Accessibility settings. Consider using the built-in text styles. The system-defined text styles give you a convenient and consistent way to convey your information hierarchy through font size and weight. Using text styles with the system fonts also ensures support for Dynamic Type and larger accessibility type sizes (where available), which let people choose the text size that works for them. For guidance, see Supporting Dynamic Type. Modify the built-in text styles if necessary. System APIs define font adjustments — called symbolic traits — that let you modify some aspects of a text style. For example, the bold trait adds weight to text, letting you create another level of hierarchy. You can also use symbolic traits to adjust leading if you need to improve readability or conserve space. For example, when you display text in wide columns or long passages, more space between lines (loose leading) can make it easier for people to keep their place while moving from one line to the next. Conversely, if you need to display multiple lines of text in an area where height is constrained — for example, in a list row — decreasing the space between lines (tight leading) can help the text fit well. If you need to display three or more lines of text, avoid tight leading even in areas where height is limited. For developer guidance, see leading(\_:).Developer note You can use the constants defined in Font. Design to access all system fonts — don’t embed system fonts in your app or game. For example, use Font. Design.default to get the system font on all platforms; use Font. Design.serif to get the New York font. If necessary, adjust tracking in interface mockups. In a running app, the system font dynamically adjusts tracking at every point size. To produce an accurate interface mockup of an interface that uses the variable system fonts, you don’t have to choose a discrete optical size at certain point sizes, but you might need to adjust the tracking. For guidance, see Tracking values. Using custom fonts Make sure custom fonts are legible. People need to be able to read your custom font easily at various viewing distances and under a variety of conditions. While using a custom font, be guided by the recommended minimum font sizes for various styles and weights in Specifications. Implement accessibility features for custom fonts. System fonts automatically support Dynamic Type (where available) and respond when people turn on accessibility features, such as Bold Text. If you use a custom font, make sure it implements the same behaviors. For developer guidance, see Applying custom fonts to text. In a Unity-based game, you can use Apple’s Unity plug-ins to support Dynamic Type. If the plug-in isn’t appropriate for your game, be sure to let players adjust text size in other ways. Supporting Dynamic Type Dynamic Type is a system-level feature in i OS, i Pad OS, tv OS, vision OS, and watch OS that lets people adjust the size of visible text on their device to ensure readability and comfort. For related guidance, see Accessibility. Mail content at the default text size Mail content at the largest accessibility text size For a list of available Dynamic Type sizes, see Specifications. You can also download Dynamic Type size tables in the Apple Design Resources for each platform. For developer guidance, see Text input and output. To support Dynamic Type in Unity-based games, use Apple’s Unity plug-ins. Make sure your app’s layout adapts to all font sizes. Verify that your design scales, and that text and glyphs are legible at all font sizes. On i Phone or i Pad, turn on Larger Accessibility Text Sizes in Settings > Accessibility > Display & Text Size > Larger Text, and confirm that your app remains comfortably readable. Increase the size of meaningful interface icons as font size increases. If you use interface icons to communicate important information, make sure they’re easy to view at larger font sizes too. When you use SF Symbols, you get icons that scale automatically with Dynamic Type size changes. Keep text truncation to a minimum as font size increases. In general, aim to display as much useful text at the largest accessibility font size as you do at the largest standard font size. Avoid truncating text in scrollable regions unless people can open a separate view to read the rest of the content. You can prevent text truncation in a label by configuring it to use as many lines as needed to display a useful amount of text. For developer guidance, see number Of Lines. Consider adjusting your layout at large font sizes. When font size increases in a horizontally constrained context, inline items (like glyphs and timestamps) and container boundaries can crowd text and cause truncation or overlapping. To improve readability, consider using a stacked layout where text appears above secondary items. Multicolumn text can also be less readable at large sizes due to horizontal space constraints. Reduce the number of columns when the font size increases to avoid truncation and enhance readability. For developer guidance, see is Accessibility Category. Maintain a consistent information hierarchy regardless of the current font size. For example, keep primary elements toward the top of a view even when the font size is very large, so that people don’t lose track of these elements. Platform considerationsi OS, i Pad OSSF Pro is the system font in i OS and i Pad OS. i OS and i Pad OS apps can also use NY.mac OSSF Pro is the system font in mac OS. NY is available for Mac apps built with Mac Catalyst. mac OS doesn’t support Dynamic Type. When necessary, use dynamic system font variants to match the text in standard controls. Dynamic system font variants give your text the same look and feel of the text that appears in system-provided controls. Use the variants listed below to achieve a look that’s consistent with other apps on the platform. Dynamic font variant APIControl contentcontrol Content Font(of Size:)Labellabel Font(of Size:)Menumenu Font(of Size:)Menu barmenu Bar Font(of Size:)Messagemessage Font(of Size:)Palettepalette Font(of Size:)Titletitle Bar Font(of Size:)Tool tipstool Tips Font(of Size:)Document text (user)user Font(of Size:)Monospaced document text (user fixed pitch)user Fixed Pitch Font(of Size:)Bold system fontbold System Font(of Size:)System fontsystem Font(of Size:)tv OSSF Pro is the system font in tv OS, and apps can also use NY.vision OSSF Pro is the system font in vision OS. If you use NY, you need to specify the type styles you want.vision OS uses bolder versions of the Dynamic Type body and title styles and it introduces Extra Large Title 1 and Extra Large Title 2 for wide, editorial-style layouts. For guidance using vibrancy to indicate hierarchy in text and symbols, see Materials > vision OS.In general, prefer 2 D text. The more visual depth text characters have, the more difficult they can be to read. Although a small amount of 3 D text can provide a fun visual element that draws people’s attention, if you’re going to display content that people need to read and understand, prefer using text that has little or no visual depth. Make sure text looks good and remains legible when people scale it. Use a text style that makes the text look good at full scale, then test it for legibility at different scales. Maximize the contrast between text and the background of its container. By default, the system displays text in white, because this color tends to provide a strong contrast with the default system background material, making text easier to read. If you want to use a different text color, be sure to test it in a variety of contexts. If you need to display text that’s not on a background, consider making it bold to improve legibility. In this situation, you generally want to avoid adding shadows to increase text contrast. The current space might not include a visual surface on which to cast an accurate shadow, and you can’t predict the size and density of shadow that would work well with a person’s current Environment. Keep text facing people as much as possible. If you display text that’s associated with a point in space, such as a label for a 3 D object, you generally want to use billboarding — that is, you want the text to face the wearer regardless of how they or the object move. If you don’t rotate text to remain facing the wearer, the text can become impossible to read because people may view it from the side or a highly oblique angle. For example, imagine a virtual lamp that appears to be on a physical desk with a label anchored directly above it. For the text to remain readable, the label needs to rotate around the y-axis as people move around the desk; in other words, the baseline of the text needs to remain perpendicular to the person’s line of sight.watch OSSF Compact is the system font in watch OS, and apps can also use NY. In complications, watch OS uses SF Compact Rounded. Specificationsi OS, i Pad OS Dynamic Type sizesx Small Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3138 Title 1 Regular 2531 Title 2 Regular 1924 Title 3 Regular 1722 Headline Semibold 1419 Body Regular 1419 Callout Regular 1318 Subhead Regular 1216 Footnote Regular 1216 Caption 1 Regular 1113 Caption 2 Regular 1113 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. Small Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3239 Title 1 Regular 2632 Title 2 Regular 2025 Title 3 Regular 1823 Headline Semibold 1520 Body Regular 1520 Callout Regular 1419 Subhead Regular 1318 Footnote Regular 1216 Caption 1 Regular 1113 Caption 2 Regular 1113 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. Medium Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3340 Title 1 Regular 2733 Title 2 Regular 2126 Title 3 Regular 1924 Headline Semibold 1621 Body Regular 1621 Callout Regular 1520 Subhead Regular 1419 Footnote Regular 1216 Caption 1 Regular 1113 Caption 2 Regular 1113 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. Large (default)Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3441 Title 1 Regular 2834 Title 2 Regular 2228 Title 3 Regular 2025 Headline Semibold 1722 Body Regular 1722 Callout Regular 1621 Subhead Regular 1520 Footnote Regular 1318 Caption 1 Regular 1216 Caption 2 Regular 1113 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.x Large Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3643 Title 1 Regular 3037 Title 2 Regular 2430 Title 3 Regular 2228 Headline Semibold 1924 Body Regular 1924 Callout Regular 1823 Subhead Regular 1722 Footnote Regular 1520 Caption 1 Regular 1419 Caption 2 Regular 1318 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.xx Large Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3846 Title 1 Regular 3239 Title 2 Regular 2632 Title 3 Regular 2430 Headline Semibold 2126 Body Regular 2126 Callout Regular 2025 Subhead Regular 1924 Footnote Regular 1722 Caption 1 Regular 1621 Caption 2 Regular 1520 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.xxx Large Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4048 Title 1 Regular 3441 Title 2 Regular 2834 Title 3 Regular 2632 Headline Semibold 2329 Body Regular 2329 Callout Regular 2228 Subhead Regular 2128 Footnote Regular 1924 Caption 1 Regular 1823 Caption 2 Regular 1722 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.i OS, i Pad OS larger accessibility type sizes AX 1 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4452 Title 1 Regular 3846 Title 2 Regular 3441 Title 3 Regular 3138 Headline Semibold 2834 Body Regular 2834 Callout Regular 2632 Subhead Regular 2531 Footnote Regular 2329 Caption 1 Regular 2228 Caption 2 Regular 2025 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. AX 2 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4857 Title 1 Regular 4351 Title 2 Regular 3947 Title 3 Regular 3744 Headline Semibold 3340 Body Regular 3340 Callout Regular 3239 Subhead Regular 3037 Footnote Regular 2733 Caption 1 Regular 2632 Caption 2 Regular 2430 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. AX 3 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 5261 Title 1 Regular 4857 Title 2 Regular 4452 Title 3 Regular 4351 Headline Semibold 4048 Body Regular 4048 Callout Regular 3846 Subhead Regular 3643 Footnote Regular 3340 Caption 1 Regular 3239 Caption 2 Regular 2935 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. AX 4 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 5666 Title 1 Regular 5362 Title 2 Regular 5059 Title 3 Regular 4958 Headline Semibold 4756 Body Regular 4756 Callout Regular 4452 Subhead Regular 4250 Footnote Regular 3846 Caption 1 Regular 3744 Caption 2 Regular 3441 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. AX 5 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 6070 Title 1 Regular 5868 Title 2 Regular 5666 Title 3 Regular 5565 Headline Semibold 5362 Body Regular 5362 Callout Regular 5160 Subhead Regular 4958 Footnote Regular 4452 Caption 1 Regular 4351 Caption 2 Regular 4048 Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.mac OS built-in text styles Text style Weight Size (points)Line height (points)Emphasized weight Large Title Regular 2632 Bold Title 1 Regular 2226 Bold Title 2 Regular 1722 Bold Title 3 Regular 1520 Semibold Headline Bold 1316 Heavy Body Regular 1316 Semibold Callout Regular 1215 Semibold Subheadline Regular 1114 Semibold Footnote Regular 1013 Semibold Caption 1 Regular 1013 Medium Caption 2 Medium 1013 Semibold Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x designs.tv OS built-in text styles Text style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Emphasized weight Title 1 Medium 7696 Bold Title 2 Medium 5766 Bold Title 3 Medium 4856 Bold Headline Medium 3846 Bold Subtitle 1 Regular 3846 Medium Callout Medium 3138 Bold Body Medium 2936 Bold Caption 1 Medium 2532 Bold Caption 2 Medium 2330 Bold Point size based on image resolution of 72 ppi for @1 x and 144 ppi for @2 x designs.watch OS Dynamic Type sizesx Small Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3032.5 Title 1 Regular 2830.5 Title 2 Regular 2426.5 Title 3 Regular 1719.5 Headline Semibold 1416.5 Body Regular 1416.5 Caption 1 Regular 1315.5 Caption 2 Regular 1214.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1113.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1012.5 Small (default 38 mm)Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3234.5 Title 1 Regular 3032.5 Title 2 Regular 2628.5 Title 3 Regular 1820.5 Headline Semibold 1517.5 Body Regular 1517.5 Caption 1 Regular 1416.5 Caption 2 Regular 1315.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1214.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1113.5 Large (default 40 mm/41 mm/42 mm)Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 3638.5 Title 1 Regular 3436.5 Title 2 Regular 2730.5 Title 3 Regular 1921.5 Headline Semibold 1618.5 Body Regular 1618.5 Caption 1 Regular 1517.5 Caption 2 Regular 1416.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1315.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1214.5 x Large (default 44 mm/45 mm/49 mm)Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4042.5 Title 1 Regular 3840.5 Title 2 Regular 3032.5 Title 3 Regular 2022.5 Headline Semibold 1719.5 Body Regular 1719.5 Caption 1 Regular 1618.5 Caption 2 Regular 1517.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1416.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1315.5 xx Large Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4143.5 Title 1 Regular 3941.5 Title 2 Regular 3133.5 Title 3 Regular 2123.5 Headline Semibold 1820.5 Body Regular 1820.5 Caption 1 Regular 1719.5 Caption 2 Regular 1518.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1517.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1416.5 xxx Large Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4244.5 Title 1 Regular 4042.5 Title 2 Regular 3234.5 Title 3 Regular 2224.5 Headline Semibold 1921.5 Body Regular 1921.5 Caption 1 Regular 1820.5 Caption 2 Regular 1719.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1618.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1517.5 watch OS larger accessibility type sizes AX 1 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4446.5 Title 1 Regular 4244.5 Title 2 Regular 3441 Title 3 Regular 2426.5 Headline Semibold 2123.5 Body Regular 2123.5 Caption 1 Regular 1820.5 Caption 2 Regular 1719.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1618.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1517.5 AX 2 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4547.5 Title 1 Regular 4346 Title 2 Regular 3537.5 Title 3 Regular 2527.5 Headline Semibold 2224.5 Body Regular 2224.5 Caption 1 Regular 1921.5 Caption 2 Regular 1820.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1719.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1617.5 AX 3 Style Weight Size (points)Leading (points)Large Title Regular 4648.5 Title 1 Regular 4447 Title 2 Regular 3638.5 Title 3 Regular 2628.5 Headline Semibold 2325.5 Body Regular 2325.5 Caption 1 Regular 2022.5 Caption 2 Regular 1921.5 Footnote 1 Regular 1820.5 Footnote 2 Regular 1719.5 Tracking valuesi OS, i Pad OS, vision OS tracking values SF Pro Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+41+0.247+34+0.238+26+0.219+19+0.1710+12+0.1211+6+0.061200.013-6-0.0814-11-0.1515-16-0.2316-20-0.3117-26-0.4318-25-0.4419-24-0.4520-23-0.4521-18-0.3622-12-0.2623-4-0.1024+3+0.0725+6+0.1526+8+0.2227+11+0.2928+14+0.3829+14+0.4030+14+0.4031+13+0.3932+13+0.4133+12+0.4034+12+0.4035+11+0.3836+10+0.3737+10+0.3638+10+0.3739+10+0.3840+10+0.3741+9+0.3642+9+0.3743+9+0.3844+8+0.3745+8+0.3546+8+0.3647+8+0.3748+8+0.3549+7+0.3350+7+0.3451+7+0.3552+6+0.3353+6+0.3154+6+0.3256+6+0.3058+5+0.2860+4+0.2662+4+0.2464+4+0.2266+3+0.1968+2+0.1770+2+0.1472+2+0.1476+1+0.0780008400880092009600 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. SF Pro Rounded Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+87+0.517+80+0.548+72+0.579+65+0.5710+58+0.5711+52+0.5612+46+0.5413+40+0.5114+35+0.4815+30+0.4416+26+0.4117+22+0.3718+21+0.3719+20+0.3720+18+0.3621+17+0.3522+16+0.3423+16+0.3524+15+0.3525+14+0.3526+14+0.3627+14+0.3628+13+0.3629+13+0.3730+12+0.3731+12+0.3632+12+0.3833+12+0.3934+12+0.3835+11+0.3836+11+0.3937+10+0.3838+10+0.3939+10+0.3840+10+0.3941+10+0.3842+10+0.3943+9+0.3844+8+0.3745+8+0.3746+8+0.3647+8+0.3748+8+0.3549+8+0.3650+7+0.3451+6+0.3252+6+0.3353+6+0.3154+6+0.3256+6+0.3058+4+0.2560+4+0.2362+4+0.2164+3+0.1966+2+0.1668+2+0.1370+2+0.1472+2+0.1176+1+0.078000.008400.008800.009200.009600.00 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs. New York Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+40+0.237+32+0.228+25+0.209+20+0.1810+16+0.1511+11+.1212+6+0.0713+4+0.0514+2+0.0315+0+0.0016-2-0.0317-4-0.0718-6-0.1119-8-0.1520-10-0.2021-10-0.2122-10-0.2323-11-0.2524-11-0.2625-11-0.2726-12-0.2927-12-0.3228-12-0.3329-12-0.3430-12-0.3731-13-0.3932-13-0.4133-13-0.4234-14-0.4535-14-0.4836-14-0.4938-14-0.5240-14-0.5542-14-0.5744-14-0.6246-14-0.6548-14-0.6850-14-0.7152-14-0.7454-15-0.7958-15-0.8562-15-0.9166-15-0.9770-16-1.0672-16-1.0980-16-1.2188-16-1.3396-16-1.50100-16-1.56120-16-1.88140-16-2.26160-16-2.58180-17-2.99200-17-3.32220-18-3.76240-18-4.22260-18-4.57 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.mac OS tracking values Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+41+0.247+34+0.238+26+0.219+19+0.1710+12+0.1211+6+0.061200.013-6-0.0814-11-0.1515-16-0.2316-20-0.3117-26-0.4318-25-0.4419-24-0.4520-23-0.4521-18-0.3622-12-0.2623-4-0.1024+3+0.0725+6+0.1526+8+0.2227+11+0.2928+14+0.3829+14+0.4030+14+0.4031+13+0.3932+13+0.4133+12+0.4034+12+0.4035+11+0.3836+10+0.3737+10+0.3638+10+0.3739+10+0.3840+10+0.3741+9+0.3642+9+0.3743+9+0.3844+8+0.3745+8+0.3546+8+0.3647+8+0.3748+8+0.3549+7+0.3350+7+0.3451+7+0.3552+6+0.3153+6+0.3354+6+0.3256+6+0.3058+5+0.2860+4+0.2662+4+0.2464+4+0.2266+3+0.1968+2+0.1770+2+0.1472+2+0.1476+1+0.0780008400880092009600 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.tv OS tracking values Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+41+0.247+34+0.238+26+0.219+19+0.1710+12+0.1211+6+0.061200.013-6-0.0814-11-0.1515-16-0.2316-20-0.3117-26-0.4318-25-0.4419-24-0.4520-23-0.4521-18-0.3622-12-0.2623-4-0.1024+3+0.0725+6+0.1526+8+0.2227+11+0.2928+14+0.3829+14+0.4030+14+0.4031+13+0.3932+13+0.4133+12+0.4034+12+0.4035+11+0.3836+10+0.3737+10+0.3638+10+0.3739+10+0.3840+10+0.3741+9+0.3642+9+0.3743+9+0.3844+8+0.3745+8+0.3546+8+0.3647+8+0.3748+8+0.3549+7+0.3350+7+0.3451+7+0.3552+6+0.3153+6+0.3354+6+0.3256+6+0.3058+5+0.2860+4+0.2662+4+0.2464+4+0.2266+3+0.1968+2+0.1770+2+0.1472+2+0.1476+1+0.0780008400880092009600 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x and 216 ppi for @3 x designs.watch OS tracking values SF Compact Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+50+0.297+30+0.218+30+0.239+30+0.2610+30+0.2911+24+0.2612+20+0.2313+16+0.2014+14+0.1915+4+0.061600.0017-4-0.0718-8-0.1419-12-0.222000.0021-2-0.0422-4-0.0923-6-0.1324-8-0.1925-10-0.2426-11-0.2827-12-0.3028-12-0.3429-14-0.3830-14-0.4231-15-0.4532-16-0.5033-17-0.5534-18-0.6035-18-0.6336-20-0.6937-20-0.7238-20-0.7439-20-0.7640-20-0.7841-20-0.8042-20-0.8243-20-0.8444-20-0.8645-20-0.8846-20-0.9247-20-0.9448-20-0.9649-21-1.0050-21-1.0351-21-1.0552-21-1.0753-22-1.1154-22-1.1356-22-1.2058-22-1.2560-22-1.3262-22-1.3664-23-1.4466-24-1.5168-24-1.5670-24-1.6472-24-1.6976-25-1.8680-26-1.9984-26-2.1388-26-2.2892-28-2.4796-28-2.62 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x designs. SF Compact Rounded Size (points)Tracking (1/1000 em)Tracking (points)6+28+0.167+26+0.188+24+0.199+22+0.1910+20+0.2011+18+0.1912+16+0.1913+14+0.1814+12+0.1615+10+0.1516+8+0.1217+6+0.1018+4+0.0719+2+0.042000.0021-2-0.0422-4-0.0923-6-0.1324-8-0.1925-10-0.2426-11-0.2827-12-0.3028-12-0.3429-14-0.3830-14-0.4231-15-0.4532-16-0.5033-17-0.5534-18-0.6035-18-0.6336-20-0.6937-20-0.7238-20-0.7439-20-0.7640-20-0.7841-20-0.8042-20-0.8243-20-0.8444-20-0.8645-20-0.8846-20-0.9247-20-0.9448-20-0.9649-21-1.0050-21-1.0351-21-1.0552-21-1.0753-22-1.1154-22-1.1356-22-1.2058-22-1.2560-22-1.3262-22-1.3664-23-1.4466-24-1.5168-24-1.5670-24-1.6472-24-1.6976-25-1.8680-26-1.9984-26-2.1388-26-2.2892-28-2.4796-28-2.62 Not all apps express tracking values as 1/1000 em. Point size based on image resolution of 144 ppi for @2 x designs.